---
layout: post
title: What is OEE? 
date: 2023-05-18 15:22:00-0400
description: Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE)
tags: 
categories: 
---

Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE) is a helpful decimal used to measure how well a particular manufacturing process is doing. OEE condenses several factors into a single value. That value tells you at a glance how healthy things are.

## Calculating OEE

OEE is the product of key metrics for a process that are recorded, timed, and planned.

### Introduction: The Three Major Components of OEE

OEE is comprised of three major components:

1. `Availability`
2. `Performance`
3. `Quality`

They are all decimal values between `0.0` and `1.0`. To calculate OEE, simply multiply them together:

$$ OEE = Availability \times Performance \times Quality $$

Thus, OEE will also always be a decimal value between `0.0` and `1.0`.

The three major components are named after terms that get thrown around often in different contexts while their definitions may vary in conversation. For OEE, these terms correspond to certain specific calculations. Before we cover how the three major components are derived, we need to cover some vocabulary and specify five supporting minor components of OEE

### Vocab terms

`cycle` is one iteration of a manufacturing process.
`cycle time` is the time it took to complete one cycle.
`idle time` is the time spent between cycles.
`fault time` is the time spent when a fault code, error code, alarm, etc. is thrown and the cycle is interrupted.
`stop time` is the sum of all time that wasn't spent processing. e.g. idle, paused, faulting, etc.

### Defining the Five Minor Components of OEE

The following are the core building blocks of OEE. With these, we are able to derive the major components:

1. `Planned Production Time`
2. `Run Time`
3. `Ideal Cycle Time`
4. `Cycle Count`
5. `Fault Count`

_Note:_ The first three time metrics will be time durations. To ensure calculations are accurate, a consistent unit of time must be kept, such as days, hours, minutes, seconds, etc.

#### `1. Planned Production Time`

This is the amount of time, or duration, scheduled for processes to take place. Another way to think of this is the total time spent attempting to complete cycles.

#### `2. Run Time`

This is the amount of time spent while the process was actually taking place. `Run Time` can be thought of as the difference between `Planned Production Time` and `Stop Time`.

$$ Run Time = Planned Production Time - Stop Time $$

#### `3. Ideal Cycle Time`

For a given process, this is the ideal time it would take to totally complete. This does not include time between cycles (`idle time`) or any other `stop time`.

#### `4. Cycle Count`

Over the course of the `Planned Production Time`, this is how many cycles were completed. The value here is a whole number.

#### `5. Fault Count`

Over the course of the `Planned Production Time`, this is how many cycles experienced an error code, alarm, quality issue, equipment failure, etc. The value here is a whole number.

### Defining the Three Major Components of OEE

#### `1. Availability`

`Availability`, also known as uptime, is the amount of time the machinery was running (`Run Time`) divided by the amount of time the machinery was scheduled to run (`Planned Production Time`).

$$ Availability = {RunTime \over PlannedProductionTime}$$

Recall:

$$ Run Time = Planned Production Time - Stop Time $$

So, alternatively, this equation will also yield `Availability`:

$$ Availability = {PlannedProductionTime - StopTime \over PlannedProductionTime} $$

#### `2. Performance`

`Performance` is the _theoretically_ shortest amount of time to process everything divided by the _recorded_ amount of time spent processing everything. Over the course of the `Planned Production Time`, multiply the `Cycle Count` by the `Ideal Cycle Time` and divide by the `Run Time`.

$$ Performance = {CycleCount \times IdealCycleTime \over RunTime} $$

Recall:

$$ Run Time = Planned Production Time - Stop Time $$

So, alternatively, this equation will also yield `Performance`:

$$ Performance = {CycleCount \times IdealCycleTime \over PlannedProductionTime - StopTime} $$

#### `3. Quality`

`Quality` is the cycles without faults divided by all cycles (`Cycle Count`).

$$ Quality = {CycleCount - FaultCount \over CycleCount} $$


### OEE Calculation

We now come back to the equation for OEE:

$$ OEE = Availability \times Performance \times Quality $$

Which may be expanded to:

$$ OEE = {RunTime \over PlannedProductionTime} \times {CycleCount \times IdealCycleTime \over RunTime} \times {CycleCount - FaultCount \over CycleCount} $$

Which may be reduced:

$$ OEE = {CycleCount \times IdealCycleTime \over PlannedProductionTime} \times {CycleCount - FaultCount \over CycleCount} $$

$$ OEE = {IdealCycleTime \over PlannedProductionTime} \times {CycleCount - FaultCount \over 1} $$

Completely simplified:

$$ OEE = {IdealCycleTime \times (CycleCount - FaultCount) \over PlannedProductionTime} $$

<!-- ## Using OEE

## Example Case Study

## How to get started tracking OEE in your operation? -->
